Update the README (#291)
NVIDIA/cccl: README.md

## Overview

The CUDA C++ Core Libraries (CCCL) grew organically out of the Thrust, CUB, and libcudacxx projects that were developed independently over the years with a similar goal: to provide a high-quality, high-performance, and easy-to-use C++ abstractions for CUDA developers.
Naturally, there was a lot of overlap among the three projects, and we realized that we could better serve the community by unifying them into a single repository.

- **Thrust** is the C++ parallel algorithms library which inspired the introduction of parallel algorithms to the C++ Standard Library. Thrust's high-level interface greatly enhances programmer productivity while enabling performance portability between GPUs and multicore CPUs via configurable backends that allow using multiple parallel programming frameworks (such as CUDA, TBB, and OpenMP).

- **libcudacxx** is the CUDA C++ Standard Library. It provides an implementation of the C++ Standard Library that works in both host and device code. Additionally, it provides abstractions for CUDA-specific hardware features like synchronization primitives, cache control, atomics, and more. 

> - **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms *like block-wide reduce and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms* like block-wide reduce and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels. 
```

However, you can generally expect if a CCCL feature worked with its corresponding CUDA Toolkit release, it should continue to work with newer CCCL versions. 
Exceptions to this might occur if a future CUDA Toolkit discontinues support for a feature relied upon by a CCCL feature.

**Important Note:** Our compatibility policy allows for the use of a newer CCCL version with an older CUDA Toolkit, but not vice versa.
For example, if CUDA 12.3 was released with CCCL 2.2, we would not support using CCCL 2.1 with CUDA 12.3.
This is because certain components of the CUDA Toolkit depend on CCCL, so an older CCCL version might lack essential features required by a newer CUDA Toolkit version.

### Host Compilers

Unless otherwise specified, we support all the same host compilers as the CUDA Toolkit, which are documented here:
- [Linux](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#host-compiler-support-policy)
- [Windows](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-microsoft-windows/index.html#system-requirements)

### C++ Dialects

> - C++11 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB)
> - C++14 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB)

Author: ```suggestion
- C++11 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB, will be dropped in next major release)
- C++14 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB, will be dropped in next major release)
```

- **Thrust** is the C++ parallel algorithms library which inspired the introduction of parallel algorithms to the C++ Standard Library. Thrust's high-level interface greatly enhances programmer productivity while enabling performance portability between GPUs and multicore CPUs via configurable backends that allow using multiple parallel programming frameworks (such as CUDA, TBB, and OpenMP).

- **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms* like block-wide reduction and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels. 

- **libcudacxx** is the CUDA C++ Standard Library. It provides an implementation of the C++ Standard Library that works in both host and device code. Additionally, it provides abstractions for CUDA-specific hardware features like synchronization primitives, cache control, atomics, and more. 

> The main goal of CCCL is to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++ – provide general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to CUDA C++ developers with general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to focus on solving the problems that matter.

Reviewer 2: <!-- Suggestions propose improvements to the current subject. It's important to be explicit and clear on what is being suggested and why it is an improvement. Consider using patches and the blocking or non-blocking decorations to further communicate your intent.  -->
**💡 suggestion:** ‏ In addition to @senior-zero 's suggestion here, use a colon instead of a hyphen (if you want a dash, use an em-dash, not a hyphen). And fill in some missing verbs.

```suggestion
The main goal of CCCL is to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++: to provide general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to enable CUDA C++ developers to focus on solving the problems that matter.
```

  }
}

int main() {

  // Allocate and initialize input data
  std::size_t N = 1000;
  thrust::device_vector<int> data(N);
  thrust::fill(data.begin(), data.end(), 1);

  // Allocate output data
  thrust::device_vector<int> kernel_result(1);

  // Compute the sum reduction of `data` using a custom kernel
  int num_blocks = (N + block_size - 1) / block_size;
  reduce<<<num_blocks, block_size>>>(thrust::raw_pointer_cast(data.data()),
                                     thrust::raw_pointer_cast(kernel_result.data()),
                                     N);

  auto err = cudaDeviceSynchronize();
  if (err != cudaSuccess) {
    std::cout << "Error: " << cudaGetErrorString(err) << std::endl;
    return -1;
  }

  // Compute the same sum reduction using Thrust
  int thrust_result = thrust::reduce(thrust::device, data.begin(), data.end(), 0);

  // Ensure the two solutions are identical
  std::printf("Custom kernel sum: %d\n", kernel_result[0]);
  std::printf("Thrust reduce sum: %d\n", thrust_result);
  assert(kernel_result[0] == thrust_result);
  return 0;
}
```

## Getting Started

### Users

Everything in CCCL is header-only. 

> Therefore, users need only concern themselves with how they get the header files and how they incorporate them into their build system. 

Reviewer 2: <!-- Nitpicks are trivial preference-based requests. These should be non-blocking by nature.  -->
**🤓 nitpick (non-blocking):** ‏ There are a lot of places like this where there is a newline where it isn't needed. The rendered result will be the same no matter what, but it would be nice to flow the text and use a consistent right margin for readers of the plain text version.

# CUDA C++ Core Libraries (CCCL)

Welcome to the CUDA C++ Core Libraries (CCCL) where our mission is to make CUDA C++ more delightful.

This repository unifies three essential CUDA C++ libraries into a single, convenient repository: 

> 1. [Thrust](https://github.com/nvidia/thrust)

Reviewer 3: It might not be helpful to link to the _previous_ homes of these libraries. It makes it look like those repos will still be maintained. I like Mark's suggestion of using a bulleted list, and remove the links.

> 1. [Thrust](https://github.com/nvidia/thrust)

Reviewer 4: I have a different opinion. I like a bullet list too, but keep the links because users who are familiar with the old repos would wonder where the new changes reside now. (When archiving the old repos I am sure we'd post the announcement in the READMEs there pointing to CCCL, but it's complementary to the changes in discussion here.)

> 1. [Thrust](https://github.com/nvidia/thrust)

Reviewer 2: I like re-pointing them to the subdirectories, or to the user guide for each. I don't like pointing them at deprecated repositories, that is confusing.

2. [libcudacxx](https://github.com/nvidia/libcudacxx)
3. [CUB](https://github.com/nvidia/cub)

Our goal is to provide CUDA C++ developers with the building blocks they need to make it easier to write safe and efficient code. By bringing these libraries together, we hope to streamline your development process and broaden your ability to leverage the power of CUDA C++.

> For more information about our decision to unify these projects, see our announcement here: (TODO)

Reviewer 5: I'm assuming the TODO will be populated later

Author: Yeah, this is a bit of a circular dependency where the announcement will link to the README and the README will link to the announcement...

## Overview

The concept for the CUDA C++ Core Libraries (CCCL) grew organically out of the Thrust, CUB, and libcudacxx projects that were developed independently over the years with a similar goal: to provide a high-quality, high-performance, and easy-to-use C++ abstractions for CUDA developers.
Naturally, there was a lot of overlap among the three projects, and we realized that we could better serve the community by unifying them into a single repository.

- **Thrust** is the C++ parallel algorithms library which inspired the introduction of parallel algorithms to the C++ Standard Library. Thrust's high-level interface greatly enhances programmer productivity while enabling performance portability between GPUs and multicore CPUs via configurable backends that allow using multiple parallel programming frameworks (such as CUDA, TBB, and OpenMP).

- **libcudacxx** is the CUDA C++ Standard Library. It provides an implementation of the C++ Standard Library that works in both host and device code. Additionally, it provides abstractions for CUDA-specific hardware features like synchronization primitives, cache control, atomics, and more. 

> - **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms* like block-wide reduce and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels. 

Reviewer 4: nit: use nouns
```suggestion
- **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms* like block-wide reduction and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels. 
```

> Bringing these libraries together enables us to better deliver the features you need as well as provide a more cohesive experience where everything “just works” out of the box.  

Reviewer 3: No smart quotes, please.
```suggestion
Bringing these libraries together enables us to better deliver the features you need as well as provide a more cohesive experience where everything "just works" out of the box.  
```

Our long-term goal is to offer a single, unified, modern C++ library that merges and extends the functionality of our existing libraries and more. 

> We envision the CUDA C++ Core Libraries to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++ – equipping you with general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to focus on solving the problems you care about, not boilerplate.

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure I follow the "not boilerplate" part

Reviewer 4: Yeah, for people who didn't attend Jake's internal talk, the "boilerplate" sentence seems to come up without proper context.

> We envision the CUDA C++ Core Libraries to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++ – equipping you with general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to focus on solving the problems you care about, not boilerplate.

Reviewer 6: There are two sentences with `The long-term goal` and `The long-term vision` That feels a bit repetitive

## Example

This is a simple example demonstrating the use of CCCL functionality from Thrust, CUB, and libcudacxx.

It shows how to use Thrust/CUB/libcudacxx to implement a simple parallel reduction kernel. Each thread block

> computes the sum of a subset of the array using `cub::BlockRecuce`. The sum of each block is then reduced 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
computes the sum of a subset of the array using `cub::BlockReduce`. The sum of each block is then reduced 
```

to a single value using an atomic add via `cuda::atomic_ref` from libcudacxx.

It then shows how the same reduction can be done using Thrust's `reduce` algorithm and compares the results.

```cpp

> #include <thrust/device_vector.h>
> #include <cstdio>
> #include <cub/block/block_reduce.cuh>
> #include <cuda/atomic>

Reviewer 6: suggestion: We try to do a bit of header hygiene in our code to better separate the different dependencies. 

```suggestion
#include <thrust/device_vector.h>

#include <cub/block/block_reduce.cuh>

#include <cuda/atomic>

#include <cstdio>
```

> #include <cuda/atomic>

Reviewer 3: This seems like a random include order. I don't know what CCCL wants to recommend for style here, but maybe don't mix STL and CCCL includes?

constexpr int block_size = 256;

> __global__ void reduce(int const* data, int* result, std::size_t N) {

Reviewer 3: Is this kernel valid for input sizes `N` up to the max of `std::size_t`? Or should this be typed differently? (Do we care?)

  using BlockReduce = cub::BlockReduce<int, block_size>;
  __shared__ typename BlockReduce::TempStorage temp_storage;

>   int index = threadIdx.x + blockIdx.x * blockDim.x;
>   int sum = 0;

Reviewer 6: nitpick: const correctness
```suggestion
  int sum = 0;
  const int index = threadIdx.x + blockIdx.x * blockDim.x;
```

Reviewer 2: <!-- Nitpicks are trivial preference-based requests. These should be non-blocking by nature.  -->
**🤓 nitpick (non-blocking):** ‏ East Const! :)

  if (index < N) {
    sum += data[index];
  }
  sum = BlockReduce(temp_storage).Sum(sum);

  if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
    cuda::atomic_ref<int, cuda::thread_scope_device> atomic_result(*result);
    atomic_result.fetch_add(sum, cuda::memory_order_relaxed);
  }
}

int main() {
  std::size_t N = 1000;
  // Allocate and initialize input data
  thrust::device_vector<int> data(N);
  thrust::fill(data.begin(), data.end(), 1);

>   // Allocate output data

Reviewer 6: suggestion:

We should add a bit of spacing to improve readability
```suggestion

  // Allocate output data
```

  thrust::device_vector<int> kernel_result(1);

  // Compute the sum reduction of `data` using a custom kernel

>   int num_blocks = (N + block_size - 1) / block_size;

Reviewer 3: Should we recommend a grid-stride loop instead?

  reduce<<<num_blocks, block_size>>>(thrust::raw_pointer_cast(data.data()),
                                     thrust::raw_pointer_cast(kernel_result.data()),
                                     N);

  auto err = cudaDeviceSynchronize();
  if (err != cudaSuccess) {
    std::cout << "Error: " << cudaGetErrorString(err) << std::endl;
    return -1;
  }

  // Compute the same sum reduction using Thrust
  int thrust_result = thrust::reduce(thrust::device, data.begin(), data.end(), 0);

  // Ensure the two solutions are identical

>   std::printf("Custom Kernel Sum: %d\n", kernel_result[0]);
>   std::printf("Thrust reduce Sum: %d\n", thrust_result);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  std::printf("Custom kernel sum: %d\n", kernel_result[0]);
  std::printf("Thrust reduce sum: %d\n", thrust_result);
```

  assert(kernel_result[0] == thrust_result);
  return 0;
}
```

## Getting Started

### Users

> Generally speaking, because CCCL is a header-only library, users need only concern themselves with how they get the header files and how they incorporate them into their build system. 

Reviewer 6: suggestion: Drop the Generally speaking
```suggestion
Because CCCL is a header-only library, users need only concern themselves with how they get the header files and how they incorporate them into their build system. 
```

Anyone interested in using CCCL in their CUDA C++ application can get started by referring to the information below. 

#### CUDA Toolkit 
The easiest way to get started using CCCL is if you already have the [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit), then you already have the CCCL headers installed on your system.
When you compile with `nvcc` you can simply include the desired headers in your code with no additional configuration required.

> If compiling with another compiler, you will need to add the include path (e.g., `/usr/local/cuda/include`) to the CCCL headers to your build system.

Reviewer 2: <!-- Suggestions propose improvements to the current subject. It's important to be explicit and clear on what is being suggested and why it is an improvement. Consider using patches and the blocking or non-blocking decorations to further communicate your intent.  -->
**💡 suggestion:** ‏ 

```suggestion
If compiling with another compiler, you will need to add the include path (e.g., `-I /usr/local/cuda/include`) to the CCCL headers to your build system.
```

> ```cpp

Reviewer 5: What's the distinction here between "having CCCL" and "not having CCCL" as far as includes go? Is this paragraph saying there's no single CCCL header and you still include all the headers you want from the separate projects?

#include <thrust/device_vector.h>
#include <cub/cub.cuh>
#include <cuda/std/atomic>
```

#### GitHub

> For users that want to stay on the cutting edge of CCCL development, we actively support and encourage users to use CCCL from GitHub. 
> We support using a newer version of CCCL with an older version of the CUDA Toolkit, but not the other way around.
> For complete information on compatibility between CCCL and the CUDA Toolkit, see [our platform support](#platform-support).

Reviewer 2: <!-- Suggestions propose improvements to the current subject. It's important to be explicit and clear on what is being suggested and why it is an improvement. Consider using patches and the blocking or non-blocking decorations to further communicate your intent.  -->
**💡 suggestion:** ‏ 
```suggestion
Users that want to stay on the cutting edge of CCCL development, are supported and encouraged to use CCCL from GitHub. 
Using a newer version of CCCL with an older version of the CUDA Toolkit is supported, but not the other way around.
For complete information on compatibility between CCCL and the CUDA Toolkit, see [platform support](#platform-support).
```

Reviewer 4: I like keeping both to show the welcoming attitude.

Reviewer 2: I like shortening to encouraged since "supported" is in the following sentence.

Everything in CCCL is header-only, so cloning and including it in a simple project is as easy as the following:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/cccl.git
# Note: You need to use -I and not -isystem in order to ensure you're using the cloned headers and not the ones from the CUDA Toolkit
nvcc -Icccl/thrust -Icccl/libcudacxx/include -Icccl/cub main.cu -o main 

> ```

Reviewer 6: Seems like it does but it breaks the suggestion

##### CMake Integration

For more complex projects, we recommend using CMake to integrate CCCL into your project.

> CCCL uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) for all of our build and installation infrastructure, including our tests as well as targets for users to link against their own projects.
> As a result, we recommend anyone using CCCL from GitHub to use CMake to integrate CCCL into your project. 
> For a complete example of how to do this using CMake Package Manager see [our example project](examples/example_project). 
> 
> Other build systems should work, but we only test CMake.
> We welcome contributions that would simplify the process of integrating CCCL into other build systems.

Reviewer 2: <!-- Suggestions propose improvements to the current subject. It's important to be explicit and clear on what is being suggested and why it is an improvement. Consider using patches and the blocking or non-blocking decorations to further communicate your intent.  -->
**💡 suggestion:** ‏ 
```suggestion
CCCL uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) for all build and installation infrastructure, including tests and targets for dependent projects to link against. Therefore, the recommended to integrate CCCL into a project is to use CMake. 
For a complete example of how to do this using CMake Package Manager see [the example project](examples/example_project). 

Other build systems should work, but only CMake is tested. CCCL welcomes contributions to simplify the process of integrating CCCL into other build systems.
```

### Contributors

Contributor guide coming soon!

## Platform Support

**Objective:** This section describes where users can expect CCCL to compile and run successfully. 

In general, CCCL should work everywhere the CUDA Toolkit is supported, however, the devil is in the details. 

> The sections below describe the details of our support for different versions of the CUDA Toolkit, host compilers, and C++ dialects.
> Furthermore, we describe our testing strategy to be confident that CCCL works everywhere it should. 

Reviewer 2: <!-- Suggestions propose improvements to the current subject. It's important to be explicit and clear on what is being suggested and why it is an improvement. Consider using patches and the blocking or non-blocking decorations to further communicate your intent.  -->
**💡 suggestion:** ‏ 
```suggestion
The sections below describe the details of support and testing for different versions of the CUDA Toolkit, host compilers, and C++ dialects. 
```

### CUDA Toolkit (CTK) Compatibility 

**Summary:**

> - The latest version of CCCL is backwards compatible with the current and preceding CTK major version series
> - CCCL is never forwards compatible with any version of the CTK. Always use the same or newer than what is included with your CTK. 

Reviewer 2: <!-- TODO's are small, trivial, but necessary changes. Distinguishing todo comments from issues: or suggestions: helps direct the reader's attention to comments requiring more involvement.  -->
**☑️ todo:** ‏ 

```suggestion
- The latest version of CCCL is backward compatible with the current and preceding CTK major version series
- CCCL is never forward compatible with any version of the CTK. Always use the same or newer than what is included with your CTK. 
```

- Minor version CCCL upgrades won't break existing code, but new features may not support all CTK versions

The CCCL team encourages users to ["live at head"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tISy7EJQPzI) and always use the newest version of CCCL from GitHub to take advantage of the latest improvements.

We want to enable users to upgrade the version of CCCL they are using without upgrading their entire CUDA Toolkit. 
Therefore, CCCL is backwards compatible with the latest patch release of every minor CTK release within two major version series: current and preceding. 
When a new major CTK is released, we drop support for the oldest version.

> | CCCL Version  | Supports CUDA Toolkit Version  |

Reviewer 4: Q: Is this table implying that when a new major CTK version is released, CCCL would also bump its major version?

Reviewer 4: Yes just saw the Versioning section below

> | CCCL Version  | Supports CUDA Toolkit Version  |
> |---------------|-------------------------------|
> | 2.x           | 11.1 - 11.8, 12.x (only latest patch releases) |
> | 3.x (Future)  | 12.x, 13.x  (only latest patch releases)       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| CCCL Version | Supports CUDA Toolkit Version                  |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------|
| 2.x          | 11.1 - 11.8, 12.x (only latest patch releases) |
| 3.x (Future) | 12.x, 13.x  (only latest patch releases)       |
```

[Well-behaved code](#compatibility-guidelines) using the latest CCCL should compile and run successfully with any supported CTK version. 
Exceptions may occur for new features that depend on new CTK features, so those features would not work on older versions of the CTK. 
For example, C++20 support was not added to `nvcc` until CUDA 12.0, so CCCL features that depend on C++20 would not work with CTK 11.x. 

We want to enable users to bring a newer version of CCCL to an older CTK, but not vice versa.
This means you cannot bring an older version of CCCL to a newer CTK.
In other words, **CCCL is never forwards compatible with the CUDA Toolkit.** 

> The table below summarizes compatibility of the CTK and CCCL:

Reviewer 4: Q: Do we have a table somewhere showing the version map from existing CTK 11.x, 12.x to CCCL versions? If so, perhaps we can link it here as a reference?

| CTK Version | Included CCCL Version |   Trying to use...  | Supported? |                            Notes                           |
|:-----------:|:---------------------:|:-------------------:|:----------:|:----------------------------------------------------------:|

> |   CTK `X.Y`   |    CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR`   | CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR+n`  |     Yes    |               Some new features may not work               |

Reviewer 2: <!-- Nitpicks are trivial preference-based requests. These should be non-blocking by nature.  -->
**🤓 nitpick (non-blocking):** ‏ Can you make the table header widths match the column widths in ASCII as well as in rendered markdown? (Version table above too)

|   CTK `X.Y`   |    CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR`   | CCCL `MAJOR+1.MINOR`  |     Yes    | Possible breaking changes.  Some new features may not work |
|   CTK `X.Y`   |    CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR`   | CCCL `MAJOR+2.MINOR`  |     No     |           CCCL supports only 2 CTK major verions           |
|   CTK `X.Y`   |    CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR`   | CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR-n`  |     No     |               CCCL is not forwards compatible              |
|   CTK `X.Y`   |    CCCL `MAJOR.MINOR`   | CCCL `MAJOR-n.MINOR`  |     No     |               CCCL is not forwards compatible              |

For more information on CCCL versioning, API/ABI compatibility, and breaking changes see the [Versioning](#versioning) section below.

### Operating Systems

> Unless otherwise specified, CCCL supports all the same operating systems as the CUDA toolkit, which are documented here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise specified, CCCL supports all the same operating systems as the CUDA Toolkit, which are documented here:
```

 - [Linux](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#system-requirements)
 - [Windows](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-microsoft-windows/index.html#system-requirements)

### Host Compilers

> Unless otherwise specified, CCCL supports all the same host compilers as the CUDA Toolkit, which are documented here:

Reviewer 5: Is this really true for libcudacxx?

Author: Yep! Save for things like icc and nvhpc, our CI currently tests against *all* the supported host compilers, e.g., https://github.com/NVIDIA/cccl/actions/runs/6086799131

- [Linux](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-linux/index.html#host-compiler-support-policy)
- [Windows](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-microsoft-windows/index.html#system-requirements)

### C++ Dialects
- C++11 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB, to be removed in next major version)
- C++14 (Deprecated in Thrust/CUB, to be removed in next major version)

> - C++17 

Reviewer 3: Trailing whitespace. Please trim the trailing whitespace in this file, there are other places where this is happening.
```suggestion
- C++17
```

For example, if the latest version of the CUDA Toolkit is 12.3, we test against 11.1 and 12.3.
For each CUDA version, we build against all of the supported host compilers with all of the supported C++ dialects.

Our testing strategy and matrix are constantly evolving. 
The matrix defined in the [`ci/matrix.yaml`](ci/matrix.yaml) file is our single source of truth and you can review it to see exactly what we test against.
For more information about our CI pipeline, see [here](ci-overview.md).

## Versioning

**Objective:** This section describes how CCCL is versioned, API/ABI stability guarantees, and compatibility guideliness to minimize upgrade headaches. 

**Summary**
- The entirety of CCCL's API shares a common semantic version across all components
- Only the most recently released version is supported and we do not backport fixes to prior releases
- API breaking changes and incrementing CCCL's major version will only coincide with a new major version release of the CUDA Toolkit 
- Not all source breaking changes are considered breaking changes of the public API that warrant bumping the major version number

> - Do not rely on ABI stability of enities in the `cub::` or `thrust::` namespaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Do not rely on ABI stability of entities in the `cub::` or `thrust::` namespaces
```

**Note:** Prior to merging Thrust, CUB, and libcudacxx into this repository, each library was independently versioned according to semantic versioning. 
Starting with the 2.1 release, all three libraries synchronized their release versions in their separate repositories. 
Moving forward, CCCL will continue to be released under a single [semantic version](https://semver.org/), with 2.2.0 being the first release from the [nvidia/cccl](www.github.com/nvidia/cccl) repository. 

### Breaking Change 

A Breaking Change is a change to **explicitly supported** functionality between released versions that would require a user to do work in order to upgrade to the newer version.

In the limit, [_any_ change](https://www.hyrumslaw.com/) has the potential to break someone somewhere. 
As a result, we do not consider all possible source breaking changes as Breaking Changes to the public API that warrant bumping the major semantic version. 

> The sections below describe whatthe details of breaking changes to CCCL's API and ABI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sections below describe the details of breaking changes to CCCL's API and ABI.
```

In other words, CCCL's public API goes beyond just function signatures and includes (but is not limited to):
- The location and names of headers intended for direct inclusion in user code
- The namespaces intended for direct use in user code
- The declarations and/or definitions of functions, classes, and variables located in headers and intended for direct use in user code
- The semantics of functions, classes, and variables intended for direct use in user code

Moreover, CCCL's public API does **not** include any of the following: 
- Any symbol prefixed with `_` or `__`
- Any symbol whose name contains `detail` including the `detail::` namespace or a macro
- Any header file contained in a `detail/` directory or sub-directory thereof
- The header files implicitly included by any header part of the public API

In general, we strive not to break anything in the public API unless such changes benefits our users with better performance, easier-to-understand APIs, and/or more consistent APIs. 

Any breaking change to the public API will require bumping CCCL's major version number. 

> In keeping with [CUDA Minor Version Compatibility](https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/cuda-compatibility/#minor-version-compatibility), 

Reviewer 4: Thank you for calling out MVC and confirming the commitment.

- **Thrust** is the C++ parallel algorithms library which inspired the introduction of parallel algorithms to the C++ Standard Library. Thrust's high-level interface greatly enhances programmer productivity while enabling performance portability between GPUs and multicore CPUs via configurable backends that allow using multiple parallel programming frameworks (such as CUDA, TBB, and OpenMP).

- **CUB** is a lower-level, CUDA-specific library designed for speed-of-light parallel algorithms across all GPU architectures. In addition to device-wide algorithms, it provides *cooperative algorithms* like block-wide reduction and warp-wide scan, providing CUDA kernel developers with building blocks to create speed-of-light, custom kernels.

- **libcudacxx** is the CUDA C++ Standard Library. It provides an implementation of the C++ Standard Library that works in both host and device code. Additionally, it provides abstractions for CUDA-specific hardware features like synchronization primitives, cache control, atomics, and more.

> The main goal of CCCL is to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++: provide general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to CUDA C++ developers allowing them to focus on solving the problems that matter.

Reviewer 2: <!-- Nitpicks are trivial preference-based requests. These should be non-blocking by nature.  -->
**🤓 nitpick (non-blocking):** ‏ 

If you fix it that way, you need a comma. :)  (Not needed if you put the verb before "CUDA C++ developers")

```suggestion
The main goal of CCCL is to fill a similar role that the Standard C++ Library fills for Standard C++: provide general-purpose, speed-of-light tools to CUDA C++ developers, allowing them to focus on solving the problems that matter.
```
